
Search

Get app
Write
Sign up

Sign in


Unknown user
The Yale Herald
The Yale Herald
Yale’s most daring publication since 1986

Follow publication

Yale Herald Best Residential Colleges Official Rankings
Everest Fang
Everest Fang

Follow
2 min read
·
Sep 16, 2019



Our algorithm uses a wide range of very real and important factors to determine which residential colleges are the best. If you want to find out more about our methodology, you can go to hell!

1. Grace Hopper College

I think we all saw this one coming. Grace Hopper College is the number one residential college at Yale. Ask anyone what the best college at Yale is and they’ll say, “Grace Hopper College!”

2. Pierson College

Pierson College is the second best residential college at Yale for obvious reasons. Have you seen their courtyard? Now that’s second-best material!

3. Ezra Stiles College

A bit of a surprise here! But everyone loves an underdog. And Ezra Stiles College is 100% an underdog. Big congrats to Stilesians everywhere!

4. Jonathan Edwards College

I’m sure you could have guessed that JE is number four. Just ask anyone at Yale what the fourth best college at Yale is. They’ll say, “Jonathan Edwards College!”

5. Timothy Dwight College

This one just screams number five.

6. Silliman College

As any good Yalie knows, “Silly Silliman Sits at Seat Six!”

7. Morse College

Get Everest Fang’s stories in your inbox
Join Medium for free to get updates from this writer.

Enter your email
Subscribe

Remember me for faster sign in

Fun fact: Morse College is the seventh best college at Yale. Aren’t you glad you picked up a copy of the Herald today?

8. Trumbull College

Trumbull serves lunch in their dining hall until 2:30 pm! They’re number eight because they eat lunch late!

9. Pauli Murray College

This is a big deal for Pauli Murray. As such a new college, it can be hard to get the kind of name recognition you need to make it into the top 10. Yet, here they are. Way to go Pauli Murray!

10. Branford College

Branford makes a cool number 10 for our very cool rankings.

11. (tie) Benjamin Franklin College

With a picturesque courtyard and an unexpected name, Benjamin Franklin slides in as the eleventh best college at Yale.

11. (tie) Davenport

We had to a throw a tie in there somewhere!

11. (tie) Saybrook

We might as well make it a three-way tie!

14. Berkeley

It was so hard to remember what the last college was! Berkeley is the worst college at Yale. Very forgettable and very long lines for lunch.

Inserts


The Yale Herald
Published in The Yale Herald
236 followers
·
Last published Jan 15, 2020
Yale’s most daring publication since 1986


Follow
Everest Fang
Written by Everest Fang
2 followers
·
2 following

Follow
Help

Status

About

Careers

Press

Blog

Store

Privacy

Rules

Terms

Text to speech